# **Testing**
We have created an app that is mostly user-driven, and has very few functions that can be tested through automated testing. Therefore, we have decided to test our app through user testing, i.e. having the app tested by various different people to find any design flaws, or even some minor bugs that we could fix, and provide a better user experience. Since we are also using singletons, it was very tedious to figure out how to automate the testing for the database queries, and in the end we decided to give up on implementing it, and decided to just have a manual check through the database.

## User Tests
We uploaded our app onto the Google Play Store, and it can be downloaded by anyone. The first round of user testing was done by our own group; everyone who had an Android phone or tablet downloaded the app and tried to fiddle around with the various pages and buttons we had implemented. We tried our best to click all the buttons to verify their functions, and we found out that there seemed to be no major issues in the app.

We then gave the app to our mentor, who downloaded it through the Play Store, and he was quite impressed. However, to our dismay, he quickly came up with a bug that we hadn't seen during our test runs: the search bar wasn't functional. We tried to figure out what the difference in the two versions was, and we found out that the reason was that we were using the APK we produced during testing, while we were using a different APK for the Play Store. This was due to the fact that our project name had to be changed when uploading the app to the Play Store, and that caused the search to not function. Therefore, we decided to refactor the name of the package to match the name fo the package we upload to the Play Store, to ensure consistency during our testing. This fixed the search bug that was present.

We then moved forward and urged different people such as our family and friends to download the app on their phones and to try it out for a while, just to have a better impression on what can be done to improve the app, either functionally or visually. We got some good feedback on how to improve our product, there were several areas that we had ignored due to them being 'obvious' to us, since we were the ones developing the app. Several navigation oversights were fixed in this manner, as it was obvious for us to know which button takes us to which page, but they were actually not properly labelled or didn't give a proper indication as to what they did. One example was the filter function we had implemented. Since we were only using icons, it wasn't very obvious what the button did, and the user would have to explore the app and draw conclusions since the icon was only an standard drop-down menu icon. However, due to the feedback we obtained, we decided to change the icon to something that would allow users to understand the purpose of the menu.

I believe that we have achieved our goal to build a periodic table app that is easy to use, is technically robust, and meets the demands of our client. 
